#summary Main documentation on AS3WavSound
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design

||<font size="1" color="grey">~~Currently all properties and methods of a sound.play() returned SoundChannel instance don't work: only SoundChannel.SoundTransform is functional. <br />This is because SoundChannel is final and cannot be repurposed. To fix this, in the nearby future a new SoundChannel class 'WavSoundChannel' will be returned on an overloaded sound.playWav() method and does support all the standard SoundChannel properties. This version however is not backwards compatible: this won't work: var soundchannel:SoundChannel = wavSound.playWav()).~~<br />Backwards compatibility has been dropped in favor of coherent basic functionality, such as `wavSoundchannel.stop()`.</font>||


== About this documentation ==

Documentation for AS3WavSound may seem minimal, but there's a good reason for this. 

 * _A WavSound object doesn't do anything particular a Sound object doesn't do as well_

The WavSound class, AS3WavSound's pivot point, was designed with complete backwards compatibility with the original Sound class in mind. In fact, it adds no additional features _except the ability to playback WAVE sound data_. Therefor it makes sense that no more documentation is needed than Adobe already provides on the entire Sound framework!

*NOTE:* backwards compatibility has recently been dropped, but the WavSound a well as the newly exposed WavSoundChannel are designed to work exactly like Sound and SoundChannel. The intent is to keep the API the same while simply adding Wave sound support.

== Transparent API ==

There is no additional API to the standard Flash Sound API. AS3WavSound simply ~~integrates with~~ mimicks the existing system.

The reason for aforementioned grade of backwards compatibility is because it is the team's vision that only then this library can gain any momentum among mainstream users. AS3WavSound aims to be as simple to use as possible and simply fill the gap of WAVE playback support. Nothing more. Certainly not another library API for users to learn.

<strong>Example</strong>

{{{
public class Demo {
		
	[Embed(source = "assets/drum_loop.wav", mimeType = "application/octet-stream")]
	public const DrumLoop:Class;
		
	public function foo():void {
		var drumLoop:WavSound = new WavSound(new DrumLoop() as ByteArray);
		sound.play();
	}
}
}}}

== Current state / Roadmap ==

AS3WavSound is mostly finished except for the following features and remaining bugs:

 # complete SoundTransform support, such as leftToleft en rightToLeft properties (currently only panning and volume are supported)
 # streaming support (ie. Sound.load() or Sound.loadWav())

[SoundChannelBug Quick note on the SoundChannel problem]

== About performance ==

A performance hit is to be expected the moment one generates sound on the fly using the [http://www.adobe.com/devnet/flash/articles/dynamic_sound_generation/index.html Adobe sanctioned SAMPLE_DATA event approach].

However, AS3WavSound has completely minimized this hit by pooling all playing WavSounds into a single Sound. In effect, in this fashion always exactly one Sound is really playing samples generated and mixed from all WavSounds active, combined. It is still not as fast as native playback however, in which Flash directly delegates to the sound card.


== Some factoids ==

<wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/p/483136/widgets/project_factoids.xml" border="0" width="400"/>
<wiki:gadget url="http://www.ohloh.net/p/483136/widgets/project_languages.xml" border="0" width="400" height="200"/>